>> Estelle Weyl: The components are, our
flexbox, our first to create a flexbox,
which is simply the display property.
Then to set the direction,
which is done with flex-flow,
which is both the direction,
as to whether it's row and columns, and
to whether it's allowed to wrap.
Then you have alignment, which is
justify-content, align-items, align-self,
and align-content.
Then you can order things, and
you saw me order, the taking nav and
move it some place else, so you can
actually change the order of an item.
And then you have flexibility
of the items themselves.
The article was allowed to grow,
that means it was flexible, it could grow.
So flexibility is a flex property which
means it can grow, it can shrink,
and it will do so
proportional to how you declare it.
Proportional to the other elements
that can grow and shrink.
And that is all part of this
thing called flex property
which has three components called
flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis.
So if you thought we were done for
the day, these are actually the properties
that we're about to go over.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay?
>> Estelle Weyl: So let's dive in.
So the first step is to add display
flex or inline flex to a parent.
Then set the flex-direction
to horizontal or vertical and
then say whether you can wrap, your
items can wrap onto more than one line.
So we have a display property and
the display property has many,
many different values.
If you've ever taken an interview and
they've asked you what are the five
values of the display property.
You should say, how did you get this job
cuz you don't know what you're doing?
Cuz I've actually been asked that and
I'm like, five?
There's so many more.
And that was before flex and
grid came out.
We've always had table-cell, table-row but
most people know inline-block, list-item.
Display none, and
what other ones do they know?
>> Estelle Weyl: That's
mostly what people think are the five.
Inline, block, list-item, none,
and one other one in here.
Anyway, we have two new values for
flex which is flex and
inline-flex.
>> Estelle Weyl: I actually
one time got that interview question and
I think I rattled off ruby,
ruby-base, ruby-text, and
the guy thought I was wrong, and yeah.
So we have, this
was inline-block was the one I forgot
when I was just mentioning, okay.
So we have inline-block,
list-item, flex and inline-flex.
So display flex is basically
a block size element and
inline-flex would be inline-flex.
Which would mean it would not
do it clear both before and
after.
>> Estelle Weyl: Is Flexbox supported in
your browser?
>> Estelle Weyl: Can I
use prefixless Flex Box?
If yes, if it supports display flex,
make the background green.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
if it supports display block, which means
it supports the supports property cuz
everything supports display block.
It would have made it red because
then it would have been no.
If it was white it
didn't support supports.
Okay, so that was just a fun feature.
Okay, so
let's add display flex to this box.
So we have a first box,
a second box, and a third box.
By default, when we hit display flex,
>> Estelle Weyl: It,
>> Estelle Weyl: Takes every element and
makes it into a flex item.
And it says basically it can't grow or
shrink,
it just becomes the size of its content.
So that's why it's so small.
If I said actually flex 20%,
that's not 20% that's 33%, right?
So we're gonna cover flex later,
but it's basically saying,
yes it can grow, yes it can shrink,
and it should be 20%.
It, by default, will start off at being
20% and then allow it to grow to take up
all the available space.
>> Estelle Weyl: Display: inline-flex.
We've already covered that one.
Okay, what is a flex item?
>> Estelle Weyl: So
when you display flex on an element,
that becomes a flex container.
And all of its direct children,
not its grandchildren, but
just its direct descendants, all of
them become flex items, including text.
So if you have text without a parent,
if you say display flex on a paragraph and
it's a paragraph that has four lengths and
two spans.
Everything that comes before the first
link and after the first link and between,
before the second link, all of that,
you'll have many individual flex items.
Those are called anonymous flex items.
They will inherit all the flex,
like they will be impacted
by all the flex properties.
But they aren't directly targetable,
so you can't actually grow and
shrink on them.
It can't get the flex bases,
it can't get the flex property, but
it will become a flex item.
So it can be aligned top,
it can be aligned bottom which
we'll learn how to do later on.
So all non-absolutely positioned
child nodes are flex items.
Generated content,
if you have generated content,
that would actually be a flex item.
So you could start off with a generated
content flex item, have that text,
then that link and the spans in
that paragraph I was talking about.
And then the after generated content.
And when I say not absolutely
positioned child nodes, if something is
absolutely positioned, the paint order
is still within the order of the flex.
And it inherits some things, such as
the width of the flex container, but
it doesn't take up any of the space.
So it's kind of a flex item,
but not really a flex item.
So at the bottom it says flex items,
all non-absolutely positioned child nodes.
And at the bottom it says,
well kind of, absolutely fixed and
position elements are kind of flex nodes.
>> Estelle Weyl: Things
that are not flex items are the first
line and the first letter.
So if you actually,
you can do generate content before and
after those will be flex nodes but
first line and first letter will not.
And if you have just white space
between that start of the paragraph and
the first link, that white space
will not become a flex item.
So you have many things that
are becoming flex items.
It's best to just basically have
everything in an element, so
that you can control it.
But if you're not doing that, you will
have what they call anonymous flex items.
So there are certain CSS properties
that are impacted by flex.
So some of the CSS properties,
when you have something that becomes
a flex item, it just ignored.
Like the float.
You know how like we float it left and
right?
That would just be ignored cuz
you can't float a flex item.
So you can have the fallback
of doing floats.
You can do a whole floated layout and
then include flex, and you're good.
They're not gonna conflict,
because it will just ignore the float.
A vertical-align,
it has its own alignment, so
you don't need vertical-align.
Clearing won't work, and
all the column properties like column gap,
column count, column width.
>> Estelle Weyl: Certain
properties are changed,
have a different impact.
Margin, when you have two adjacent
margins, they collapse upon each other.
In flex, they don't.
Min-width and
min-height normally default to zero.
When it comes to flex box,
it actually defaults to auto.
And visibility,
collapse is a feature that,
basically, you can't really use it.
So it'll collapse it and
it normally just makes it hidden.